The singular passage in Book vii.
But let me proceed with my scheme. In cases of wilful injury, Athenian law compelled the guilty person to pay double the damage in cases of involuntary injury, simple damages.
He gives no encouragement to individual enthusiasm the establishment of religion could only be the work of a mighty intellect. And are they to consider only, and to be unable to set forth what they think. Quite true.
Or rather, do we not all know the reasons. Any disputes about contracts shall be determined by the wardens of the city up to fifty drachmae - above that sum by the public courts!
A few inscriptions. Lacedaemon and Crete give no assistance here on the subject of love, as I may whisper in your ear, they are against us. Resuming the order of the discussion, which was indicated in the previous book, from marriage and birth we proceed to education in the seventh book.
He is nevertheless aware that both in public and private suits there must be a popular element. Is there any other way in which his neglect can be explained. But an old man who remarks any defect in your laws may communicate his observation to a ruler or to an equal in years when no young man is present. I say must for mankind cannot be allowed to dispose of their property as they please, in ways at variance with one another and with law and custom.
I should say the latter. Such was the good order which the multitude were willing to observe they would never have dared to give judgment by noisy cries. And, further, may we not suppose that the fear of impiety will enable them to master that which other inferior people have mastered. Assuredly.
It is not proved that the laws of Sparta were in ancient times either written down in books or engraved on tablets of marble or brass.
The council shall consist of 360, who may be conveniently divided into four sections, making ninety councillors of each class! There was a difficulty in introducing them, but there is no difficulty in them now. Very good.
Hear now, all ye who heard the laws about Gods and ancestors Of all human possessions the soul is most divine, and most truly a mans own.
If any other citizen desires to adopt him, he may, for young mens characters often change in the course of life. It will be by a singular good fortune that he is saved! He who being above forty years of age commences a fight, or retaliates, shall be counted mean and base.
I suppose that there is you at any rate, were just now saying that you were ready to maintain such a doctrine! If so, in what kind of sports. A mixed multitude, on the other hand, is more tractable, although there is a difficulty in making them pull together! Platos enactment is more explicit he allows only an unskilled person (i.
The enmity to the sea is another Spartan feature which is transferred by Plato to the Magnesian state? Does a captain require only to have nautical knowledge in order to be a good captain, whether he is sea-sick or not! We must. And now, speaking of friendship and wisdom and freedom, I wish that you would tell me at what, in your opinion, the legislator should aim.
The Laws are discussed by three representatives of Athens, Crete, and Sparta. Priests and priestesses may also follow, unless the Pythian oracle forbids.
But do you really imagine, Stranger, that this is the way in which poets generally compose in States at the present day. Speak then, O guardians of the law, and tell us what we shall do about them. His treatment of the former class is at once more gentle and more severe than that which prevailed at Athens.
You are right but I should like to know how this happens. Yes, I do.
That which is the most familiar process of our own minds, to him appeared to be the crowning achievement of the dialectical art.
What are we to observe about it. What is it. How can they.
Next, as to the reception of strangers?
True, I was and I am ready still, seeing that you have both declared that you are anxious to hear me. Shall we propose this. What are they. True but I wish that you would give us a fuller explanation.
If he could have stamped indelibly upon Hellenic states the will of the legislator, he would have been satisfied. When the religious ideas of mankind change, their laws should also change. This preamble or introduction may be abridged as follows. Will not poets and spectators and actors all agree in this.
And let the first of them be the law of Zeus, the God of boundaries. The executive of Platos Laws, like the Athenian, was different from that of a modern civilized state. So in the Laws. These, and music and mathematics, are the chief parts of his education!
They are sensible of a want of point in the dialogue and a general inferiority in the ideas, plan, manners, and style. Then now let us proceed with the rest of our tale, which will probably be found to illustrate in some degree our proposed design - Shall we do so. For you would surely not send a general invitation to all Hellas.
Excellent, O Lacedaemonian Stranger. Again and again the speaker is charged, or charges himself, with obscurity and he repeats again and again that he will explain his views more clearly.
At this stage there shall be an increase of the penalty the defendant, if he be cast, shall pay a fifth more than the damages claimed. On this point the legislator is better informed than all the poets put together. Very good. There is a common saying, that the beginning is half the whole and I should say a good deal more than half.
The judge must determine the fact and to him also the punishment must sometimes be left.
What is it. Now is this a true way of speaking or of acting. If, however, the wounding is accidental, he shall simply pay for the harm done.
Whether God or man, he who does so, must either think the neglect of such matters to be of no consequence, or he is indolent and careless. There should be public teachers of both arts, paid by the state, and women as well as men should be trained in them. The legislator is always addressing the speakers or the youth of the state, and the speakers are constantly making addresses to the legislator!
What do you mean, Stranger.
The offender must not be found out decency, if not morality, must be respected. Thirdly, the choir of elder men, who are from thirty to sixty years of age, will also sing. I quite agree. Of course.
Now I cannot say that I shall be satisfied, if we go on discussing each of the remaining laws in the same way.
Certainly! And pleasure is not the same with passion, but has an opposite power, working her will by persuasion and by the force of deceit in all things.
We wonder how, familiar as he was with the statues of Pheidias, he could have endured the lifeless and half-monstrous works of Egyptian sculpture. For the connexion of soul and body is no way better than the dissolution of them, as I am ready to maintain quite seriously. Not Perhaps not, but Certainly not, my good sir, is the right answer. And therefore the legislator must assign to these also their forms.
And the general spread of unbelief shows that the legislator should do something in vindication of the laws, when they are being undermined by bad men. Certainly we should!
The reign of Cronos has passed away, and various forms of government have succeeded, which are all based on self-interest and self-preservation. But the assembly only exists for the purposes of election, and has no legislative or executive powers. Certainly. He allows of two appeals - in each case however with an increase of the penalty.
By all means, if Heaven wills.
A fourth musical law will be to the effect that hymns and praises shall be offered to Gods, and to heroes and demigods. There is a great difference, Stranger, in the two kinds of education. Next follows dancing, which is of two kinds imitative, first, of the serious and beautiful and, secondly, of the ludicrous and grotesque.
Yes let that be plainly declared. This, however, which is in one way an advantage to the colonist or legislator, in another point of view creates a difficulty. Let us proceed to describe the character of these pastimes! For surely neither of them can be charged with neglect if they fail to attend to something which is beyond their power.
If the owner be absent, the searcher may counter-seal the property which is under seal, and place watchers. No controversy need be raised about names at present we are only desirous of fixing in our memories the heads of error.
One. Two. Three. Four! Five. Six. Seven. Eight! Nine? Ten?